Welcome! In this lecture we are going to be learning how to rotate
our camera, based on the...
a concept called a Quaternion.
OK, so the first thing we need to do to get this rotation
happening in code is Create a new Script, and we like to
have different scripts for every different responsibility. So we had one for spawning
the ball and we have a responsibility of turning the
camera, so we've got CameraRotation.
So that's what the script's going to be called, and I'm going to drag that on the Camera as well. So you see it keeps
all the components nice and modular. If we look on the Camera, you can
see each.. each script is doing it's own thing.
OK this is a ghost component from something I was doing before,
that's a bit naughty that it was in the video. Um, so we have
the CameraRotation script, and here we have this Camera
Rotation script. Let's open it up in VisualStudio.
And what can we do with the CameraRotation? So
if we look at our game object, for the Camera, for a moment,
we'll notice that there's a Transform with a Rotation property.
Now we want to be looking at that one. Now a transform is very easy to
get hold of. We don't have to do, ah..we can do a GetComponent
transform, like you've seen
me do before but that's not necessary. There's a
shortcut for that, which is just transform like this. So transform
and here we can do a .rotation or we can
do a .local rotation. Well we'll be doing a .rotation for now.
And now, what can you set the rotation
to? So this is something new, updating
updating a property. Well we
actually are with velocity, so that's exactly the same thing we're doing here. We're
updating this field in code, by assigning to it.
Now what can we assign? Well we need to assign is a..what's called a
Quaternion. This is a new type but don't worry
too much about the details. It's a complex algebraic structure, but all we
need to know about it is that it implements a rotation, if we do
Quaternion.Euler(), like this.
Euler refers to some mathematical
constructs. Don't really worry about the details, all you need to know is, to do a rotation you
need a Quaternion.Euler. And then,
if we have a look down with the arrows, you'll see, we're going to be using this signature here, which gives us the
x, y, and z. And as it says, in the documentation here, "Returns
a rotation that rotates z degrees around the z axis,
x degrees around the x axis", etc. So let's
rotate around the Y axis. So I'm going to do 0 in X,
90 degrees in Y, and 0 in Z.
Now I'll put my semicolon there. And let's go back to
Unity and have a look at how this plays!
OK, we do appear to have changed the viewing angle of our
camera, because now if I enter balls in the scene we can't actually see them.
Now I want to show you something really cool about the Unity Editor. If you go into the Scene
tab, you can actually have a look live
at what your game is doing. You can scroll
around and select items that are in the scene
and only at runtime. So if we have a look at our Camera
object, and we'll look from the top, because that's the dimension in which
we were rotating it. I want to see
the cone of the camera,
which is proving hard to get hold of.
But we don't have to see the cone, because you can see the Rotation, in the
Inspector, is 90 degrees. OK that is quite
clear. Now I want to show you one more feature of Quaternions,
is that you can essentially add them together,
in the sense that you can rotate by 90 degrees
and then you can rotate by another 90 degrees. So how would you
do that? Or let's say 90 degrees and 30 degrees. Well
you would be tempted to think that you could do + Quaternion
.Euler(0, 90,
or 30 degrees like that. However, you see
this gives us an error, because we can't do + apparently between
Quaternion types. However, you can do multiplication, and in actual fact,
multiplication is what we want. If you multiply this rotation by this
rotation, what the result is essentially
having rotated by both of these. So if I pause
and hit play again
and then we come back to our scene and look at our Main Camera,
you'll notice indeed it has rotated by 120, which is the sum of those
two rotations.
So here is my challenge! I'd like you to send the camera spinning! By
that I mean I want you to spin the camera around and around over time.
To do this, you need to update the CameraRotation every frame.
So remember how you can do that, if not have a look back through the
previous lectures at how we do things every frame. And then, I would like you to
base the new rotation off the old one, so that we are constantly
incrementing this rotation. And then, here's a
hint, you'll need to use multiplication to do this. So pause the video and have a
go at this challenge!
OK welcome back! Let's dive right into
doing this! So the first thing, I
said I wanted it to happen every frame, and Update () is the place for things that
happen every frame, as this method gets called every frame. So we update the
rotation but we're updating it to a fixed value.
There's always this 30 degree rotation, so that's not actually going to help us.
It's not going to rotate the camera any further. So what we need to do is
factor into account the old rotation as well, so I'll multiply
by transform.rotation. So you
remember this is the very common pattern that we had, like we had with distance, where we
had distance = distance + 1, for example.
Now let's have a look in the Unity Editor at what this does
for us! OK, as you see, it's
spinning ridiculously quickly, because we're rotating by 90 degrees every frame.
So it's just all of a jutter! So if we just rotated
by 1 degree per frame, let's see what effect that has!
OK
that is much nicer and much smoother! Now, just to show you
that the rotation can happen in other dimensions too, so
we can rotate around Z. Let's try that out!
I'm going to hit play! There you go! That
is a rotation around Z, and
finally, let's do a rotation around X.
That's this one here. Hit play
and there we go! That's
our rotation around X. So
you've finally managed to get the code to rotate
the camera, and you've learned about Quaternion
multiplication. Well done, that's a lot of concepts for one lecture!